Welcome to spring data in this section we're going to dive into the amazing world of spring data spring
data is one of the most active projects of spring family with spring data.
You can connect to and use any database you want bring data is basically a wrapper around the JPA.
The Jella persistence API spring takes all the base functionality from JPA and builds on top of it with
its own way the simplicity.
Now let's talk about the highlights of spring data and how we're going to use it.
Spring data is an abstraction on top of Joe persistence API.
As we said earlier spring data wraps around the JPA takes away the complexity of transaction managers
and city managers and simplifies all the process of data persistence with a regular JPA backed application.
You should explicitly say that you want to begin transaction before you can actually commit something.
And of course you should also end the transaction that was started manually in each and every statement
when data is a powerful repository and allows custom object mapping abstractions.
What this means is that spring data handles all the transaction management for you.
All you have to do is create an interface for your repository and define your entities with proper annotations.
And so being takes care of managing the complexity so you can code to a repository and have your types
cast it and on casts it automatically spin data allows dynamic query creation from repository interface
method names.
This is a very very powerful feature of spring data.
You can just create an interface for your repository.
And of course annotated as a repository and write are abstract methods.
Just like a query into creating repositories an entity section will dig into that and I'll show you
how you can make use of this great feature.
Spring data allows you to implement domain based classes with their basic properties as you've discussed
with the repository earlier.
You can simply annotate your entities and hold them created for you by spring Deda will also do that
a lot.
When we start our implementation spring data also allows custom repository management.
What this means is that if you think you need a very specific action that you want to apply other entities
for example you need to build a very complex query and you found out that Spindler can't do it all by
itself.
So you can create a custom query very easily within the notation souping data also allows you to implement
cross-talk persistence.
So it basically means that you can manage multiple repositories at the same time with the same repository
code and with a little bit of configuration.
This is a long list of useful features for spring Deda.
But in fact Spindler can do much more than that.
These are just the highlights all right we've gained a good amount of knowledge and spin data and will
definitely use these awesome features within our code in the following videos.
So to talk about the databases that we're going to use for our implementations which is H-2 I'll see
on the next video.